Moderator: Okay. So I started recording. So I just wanna confirm, are you comfortable? If I record my screen and audio as we talk today.
P18: Yep.
Moderator: And are you comfortable if we decided to use a recorded clip from our discussion today to share with other Va partners removing any identifying information.
P18: Yep, that's fine.
Moderator: Okay, thank you so much. So before we take a look at that form together,
Moderator: just have a couple of questions about the caregiver program. So have you ever applied for the program of comprehensive assistance for family caregivers?
P18: Yep.
Moderator: You have.
Moderator: Are you enrolled in it?
P18: Got denied after 2 very
P18: long appeals about 3 years, long.
Moderator: Okay, I'm so sorry to hear that.
Moderator: And
Moderator: when was it that you 1st tried to apply.
P18: 2020, maybe somewhere around 2020, somewhere in 2020 we just finally got the second
P18: appeal
P18: this past year, sometime, like sometime in 2024
P18: and it's just none of it makes sense like their reasonings and everything. So we have one last shot. I didn't wanna submit it right away.
P18: Because
P18: there was just nothing new to add to our case, because their reasonings they would just give us same reason.
P18: So we're just gonna wait a little longer.
P18: you know all the reasons that it said it. It
P18: just nothing made sense.
P18: My husband has been at home.
P18: I've been doing consecutive care for my husband for
P18: over 3 years now
P18: straight.
P18: So a lot of their stuff just didn't make sense.
Moderator: Yeah, definitely.
Moderator: Have you talked to someone at the call center or at the Va facility in person?
P18: Several times. And it was, I've talked to the
P18: like the caregiver, support.
P18: person, like that, we're associated to for our.
P18: I don't know what it's called region or district, and it was just kinda it was. It's out of their hands.
P18: Everything was sent over, and when you talk to anybody when you call it's it's out of their hands. It's it'll get to you when it gets to you like the decision.
P18: and you can't physically talk to anybody about the decision or the reasons or anything. It's
P18: everything has to be done in
P18: writing, and you only get 3 shots at it. So we've already been denied. 2.
P18: The second one took 2 years. The denial came back 2 years later.
P18: So we're waiting that whole time. And there's no timeframe for that which we're told from the get go. It could take
P18: 10 years if they wanted it to. There's no timeframe. Granted. If you're finally approved. You'd get
P18: back pay for all that time. But if you're not like we were.
P18: we're just sitting here stranded where we
P18: I can't work because of his situation. So we live off of his
P18: disability.
Moderator: Gotcha, that is so crazy. I'm really sorry to hear that
P18: The next step would be
P18: going to Congress.
P18: I mean, which is what we've been told to do. But
P18: I have health issues. I can barely handle what I'm doing here.
P18: adding that on top of this is just not something I can deal with right now.
Moderator: That's crazy. I'm so.
P18: Like. I need a secretary to do all that, and I can't afford one of can't afford one of those. So.
Moderator: Yeah.
P18: There's a.
Moderator: Great I'm glad that we're getting your viewpoint so that we can, you know, report on it.
P18: I do?
Moderator: Just kind of escalate that. However, we can on our end.
Moderator: Have you ever interacted with the Va. For family member benefits.
P18: for family member benefits like. For myself, I go through Champ Va, but I don't know that I've
P18: contacting anybody.
P18: Cause that, too. Everything is through the mail, so I don't think I have.
P18: I do everything for Ty, so I mean I do all of Ty stuff my husband's stuff.
P18: He's a veteran.
Moderator: A.
P18: What was that?
Moderator: Are you enrolled in Champ? Va.
P18: I am. Yes.
Moderator: Okay.
P18: Cause. He's a hundred percent.
Moderator: Gotcha
Moderator: so could you tell me in your own words what it means to be a veteran caregiver?
P18: The hardest job of my life
P18: from sunup to sundown.
P18: every day is different.
P18: which is hard
P18: because there's no routine.
P18: I mean, I guess there is a routine of no routine.
P18: A lot of mental health issues that I have now because of this.
P18: Missing my old life missing our old life. Because I am not able to work anymore. I miss my job a lot.
Moderator: Yeah.
P18: So
P18: yeah, I miss money.
P18: People say it doesn't bring happiness, but it buys a lot of other stuff.
P18: it's just it's a big change that a lot of people don't realize makes you very lonely.
P18: especially in rural areas.
P18: Yeah, where we are, we
P18: luckily have
P18: for other people. Ty. It doesn't
P18: work for, because it is Ptsd, but we luckily do have a Va clinic here in our
P18: small town, and it's like 50,000 people.
P18: Finally, we didn't have one for many years, so there's some sort of place for veterans. But there's nothing for families. I've asked numerous times. There's no support. All it is is to call in every month to
P18: the 1 800 number.
P18: Hmm!
P18: Or it sends you to like our regional place, which is
P18: Toma or Milwaukee for Wisconsin.
P18: but there's no physical.
P18: There's no beans here for caregivers. There's nothing.
Moderator: Gotcha. What's your preferred method to kind of learn about these potential Va benefits? Do you? Your information in person online, from friends.
P18: I have nobody. I'm literally alone. I have nobody. So I get everything through email.
P18: And whatever websites I might reach out to or find.
Moderator: Okay.
P18: Okay.
Moderator: Gotcha
Moderator: What information do you think that you'd need before completing a form, to sign up as a caregiver for your husband?
P18: Information.
P18: God! It was so long ago. Now what did I need?
P18: All of his documentation, which for me
P18: I was very Ocd. So I knew where all of it was beforehand. But for somebody who
P18: might not know where their veteran stuff is.
P18: You know, you need
P18: either computer if you're not gonna do it through your
P18: caregiver support person, you're
P18: the representative person that you're given
P18: If you don't have Va access like
P18: we lived in Milwaukee. So we did. But if you're in a rural area, you don't. So you need Internet access. You need to be able to know how to use the computer.
P18: And you need to know where to find all of the veterans. Documents needed like their dB, 2 and 4 and all their medical records.
P18: And then all their healthcare medical records, if they don't use the Va. Like my husband, because the Va. Is a
P18: Ptsd trigger for him, so he doesn't use the Va. At all.
P18: So everything we use is private.
Moderator: Gotcha totally understandable. I hear that a lot. Just kind of people associating Va and the military together
Moderator: that can be a blocker for sure.
Moderator: Okay, so I'm gonna have you open the link to the form. I will put it in the zoom chat.
P18: Okay.
Moderator: Do you see that.
P18: If
P18: okay, I can't see you now. Is that is that okay?
Moderator: Yeah, it's okay. See you, either. But
Moderator: it's probably because the zoom window isn't like open. You probably have that link open right.
P18: Yeah, yeah, it's probably because of the tablet thing, which is why I was gonna switch over. But that's alright. We'll figure it out.
Moderator: But I want you to share your screen with me in zoom. If you could go back to the window, the zoom window.
P18: Oops.
P18: Zoom okay? And then tell me how to do that.
Moderator: There should be a I'm not totally sure if you'll see this on your tablet, but there should be a a toolbar on the bottom
Moderator: of the zoom window.
P18: Shared.
Moderator: Yeah, share. Button.
P18: Okay, share.
P18: What is it want me to share
P18: to do the share screen.
Moderator: Yep.
P18: Okay, it's got like 15 different things here. Okay.
P18: okay, what is it?
P18: Do you still see me? Or do you see something else?
Moderator: I see you.
P18: Okay.
P18: display for other apps. I don't know what this.
P18: Let's try it.
P18: And
P18: okay.
Moderator: Perfect.
P18: So now what happened to my?
P18: There we go.
Moderator: Yeah, perfect. I can see the form now.
P18: Awesome.
Moderator: Okay. So I just want you to review this 1st page here and tell me your initial thoughts and expectations of the form before going forward and applying.
P18: oops.
P18: This all sounds like it would work so well
P18: having thoughts about going through all this. Yeah.
P18: Might get you where it gets you.
Moderator: Yeah.
P18: I don't remember the timeframe where? Where? It says 15 min. I don't remember that part. But I guess we'll find out.
P18: Okay.
Moderator: 15 min means.
P18: Like that. I shouldn't have to spend more than 15 min on this on the application.
Moderator: Okay.
P18: And I I don't remember that I
P18: only spent 15 min on it. To me it feels like longer. But this was also a long time ago, now that maybe
P18: promo from all this it seemed like it was longer.
Moderator: Yeah, okay.
P18: so
P18: to find out if you're eligible.
P18: I mean, I can only go off of what I know now that
P18: they denied him for that. I don't know if that's
P18: truly accurate, or if that's what they're, you know, still using
P18: compared to what they denied him for.
P18: Okay, but everything else
P18: I mean. Seems like it should be easy.
P18: Seem. You know, there's a phone number like.
P18: seems like you should be able to get a hold of somebody.
P18: but that's just the support line that's not to get hold of anybody, because they don't know anything about the application, if you call them cause I've called them several times. They don't know anything they give you to another number and another number
P18: unless if again, that has changed where they've
P18: like.
P18: you know, funneled some stuff where they figured stuff out and found a number.
P18: But when I called the support care line like it was just the caregiver support line was just to talk to somebody. It wasn't to
P18: like
P18: find anything out.
P18: But that may have changed like I said it was a while ago.
Moderator: Okay. But it was not helpful, and you probably.
P18: That number.
P18: I ended up having to call
P18: the military one source
P18: like I even got them involved to see if they could find somebody to.
P18: you know, get someone else to help me. And they were ultimately given the same information that I was that there's no number.
P18: It's just a sit and wait, and there's no like status check number where you can see
P18: how long it's gonna take or where it is in line, or anything like that.
Moderator: Okay.
Moderator: with a Vso or other.
P18: And I was gonna say, the Vso says they they're like out of that. They they don't do anything with it. At least the one that I worked with.
P18: They were like, you know, we are
P18: our county, and that's it. Anything else we send you to the the numbers that we've been given from the Va.
P18: But it's not like they got involved like they didn't make any calls.
Moderator: Okay.
Moderator: but they helped you like apply. In the 1st place.
P18: No, no, I I applied by myself. That's what I'm saying. I don't remember the timeframe.
P18: To me it seemed like it was longer than 15, but again it was so long ago I just might not be remembering the time right.
Moderator: Okay.
P18: But I did all the application by myself.
Moderator: on a scale of one to 5 one being the worst and 5 being the best. How prepared and informed do you feel about the application based on this page's content, and why.
P18: If this is truly all you need on the application, I'm just gonna go off like I'm starting fresh. I know nothing about the application. If this is truly everything you need for the application, this is it.
P18: I would feel
P18: prepared. What was your number? Again? 1 1.
Moderator: 5.
P18: One being what sorry?
Moderator: One's the worst. Five's the best.
P18: I mean, I would say 5. It seems like it's pretty thorough like. Tells you what you need. I'd have my social or his social
P18: date of birth number.
P18: this healthcare provider.
P18: I mean, I have all the numbers there. I need.
Moderator: Okay.
P18: 15 min. Yeah, I mean, it seems like it would be easy.
Moderator: so now, I'd like you to start the form as if you're applying for the program.
Moderator: And just a reminder. This is a testing site. So you don't have to worry about any information that you enter. Going anywhere.
Moderator: You can use real or fake information. It doesn't matter. I'll give you a fake social security number when we get there.
P18: Okay.
Moderator: Just think aloud as you're going through the form. I want to hear about any reactions that you're having.
P18: Sure.
P18: I don't mind this.
P18: I mean, I don't mind. You guys seen
P18: this
P18: I'll put this on there. I can't imagine.
P18: Many people have his 1st name, but
P18: he doesn't have that.
P18: Okay. Easy, Peasy.
P18: Alright! What's that number?
Moderator: 3, 2, 1,
Moderator: 4, 5, 6,
Moderator: 7, 8, 9.
Moderator: Then you can continue.
P18: Hmm.
P18: Louisiana.
P18: you have a different number for this, or you just want me to use mine.
Moderator: You can use a fake number or a real one, it doesn't matter.
Moderator: Just has to be
Moderator: right. It's
Moderator: okay.
Moderator: Okay.
Moderator: How would you prefer to search for a Va. Facility here.
P18: I mean if it was required. I probably
P18: search I mean, we lived in Milwaukee at that time, so I just probably searched with the Milwaukee
P18: postal code.
P18: Okay?
P18: But we knew we were never gonna I mean, I can use the one here in Wausau.
P18: Yeah, that's the one we have here.
P18: But I knew
P18: I mean we were never gonna use any va quit va care.
Moderator: Okay, so you know of that location. But you don't use it
Moderator: correct.
Moderator: What? Any thoughts about this page
Moderator: I don't hear you. Do you hear me?
Moderator: Might have frozen.
Moderator: Oh.
Moderator: then.
P18: Yup, okay, they're still there. Thank you. Appreciate it. Alright, bye, bye.
P18: Sorry. I have no idea. All of a sudden my Internet went down everywhere. Remember, I said, that earlier.
Moderator: Yeah.
P18: Went down again, and the whole house, like
P18: all the power went down. And then the Internet went down.
P18: Okay, I lost everything. I don't even know where I was at.
Moderator: Oh, I'm so sorry!
P18: If I have to start over for you guys.
Moderator: saw that link open.
P18: Let me go back to the chat like my like. The
P18: my browser went down so I don't have that.
P18: Let's see, there's nothing in the chat for me to click that link.
P18: Okay.
Moderator: Yeah, I'll I'll put it there again.
P18: Thanks. Sorry about that. I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do.
Moderator: Not your fault at all. When that happens, we usually just hang on and assume that they're having technical difficulties.
P18: Alright, so I'll come back to you guys.
Moderator: Unfortunately, you probably have to just start over with.
P18: Yeah, that's that's fine. Let's see, share.
Moderator: And I put the link in the zoom chat.
P18: Screen.
P18: Okay, there we go.
P18: alright. Well, and
P18: I'll just make this stuff short, like ABC stuff.
Moderator: Yeah, that's fine.
P18: Luckily I wasn't all the way to the last page.
P18: Now, it's really gonna make it seem like it's
P18: faster than 15 min. Alright! What was that number? Again.
Moderator: 3, 2, 1.
P18: Okay.
Moderator: 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.
P18: I don't remember if we were in the middle of a topic point, or a question either.
Moderator: That's okay. We'll pick up where we left off. It was like the the facility search you were doing.
P18: Oh, yes.
P18: God! That was so bizarre
P18: right here. Yep.
Moderator: Fast getting back there.
P18: As I said, it's gonna take me quicker than 15 min now, so I don't have to really read anything.
P18: So I would have picked the Milwaukee one. I'm just gonna pick the one where we are now, Oasa.
Moderator: Okay.
P18: But again, he wouldn't have used it because he doesn't use any. Va. We only use private healthcare.
P18: That's what I was saying. I don't know if you heard me. So when you call the Wasa, it sends you because we're linked to Toma. It's a it's a satellite, the Va. Because it the Wasa one, because it's so small. So when you call the Wasa, it sends you directly to Toma, and then you have to tell them you want to go to the Wasa.
P18: and then, because they don't want everyone calling the Wasa, and it being a wrong, not like going to the wrong place. So you get directly sent to Toma, just to being sent back to the Wasa number. It's it's pretty bizarre.
Moderator: Wow!
P18: Alright!
Moderator: Thank you. Just going back to that page real quickly. I wanted to get your thoughts about it
Moderator: what do you think this page is telling you.
P18: So. I guess.
P18: depending on how involved the caregiver is, or where they are in their caregiver journey.
P18: I guess, for me right now this makes a lot of sense, but in the beginning it wouldn't have
P18: So now.
P18: being in Milwaukee, Milwaukee is a
P18: permanent sites. So in the State of Wisconsin. There's 3 permanent sites. There's Milwaukee, Madison, and Tomah. So any of the other smaller Va clinics are all satellite clinics.
P18: So if you have any issues. Your smaller clinic is assigned to
P18: a regional clinic. So our regional clinic is Toma.
P18: In the beginning. I wouldn't have had it on that, because we were in Milwaukee.
P18: Here I found all of that out being in Wausau area that we're I just assumed we'd still be located or connected to Milwaukee, because all of his were registered with Milwaukee. All of our stuff is with Milwaukee.
P18: but the Wasa clinic is a satellite of the Toma, so we had to re-register. Nothing gets shared between the 3 clinics found that out. So we had to completely re-register as a new veteran with the Toma Clinic
P18: coming from Milwaukee, which again seems bizarre
P18: so we'd re-register with the Toma Clinic, and then he could
P18: be registered. And then, as when you're registered with the toma. You're then registered with any of the smaller satellites, which is the Wasa. So
P18: now this makes complete sense to me, because your signed caregiver support facility is Toma that makes sense like I know I was saying like there's no caregiver support. All it says is, call this 1 800 for the monthly, and it sends you to Toma for me
P18: right now. So. But if I was in my beginning caregiver journey, I would have no idea what this means I'd be like.
P18: what do you mean? I'm assigned to tomatoma is 3 h away from here, so is Milwaukee. So
P18: Maybe there could be some explanation. If people
P18: I don't know where it would be, but maybe under
P18: your assigned caregiver was support facility.
P18: You can sign this in the application process.
P18: but if you don't know what this means, click here.
P18: cause! I would not have known what that meant in the very beginning. Now I do.
Moderator: Good to know. Thank you for that.
P18: Makes sense. Okay.
Moderator: If you were gonna rate this just this facility selection part one to 5, 1 being the worst 5 being the best.
Moderator: how would you rate the process of selecting a Va. Facility.
P18: Selecting the Va. Facility, I would say
P18: very easy. 5.
P18: But now, knowing what I know very confusing one cause as a beginner, it'd be like, why am I being sent to Toma
P18: when I'm right here in Wausau like? So I live in Schofield. It's literally
P18: 5 min away from that Vasa Va clinic. We're just a suburb of Vasa.
P18: So
P18: it doesn't make sense, I guess, unless, if explained.
Moderator: Okay.
P18: In my head.
Moderator: Okay. But.
P18: Selection is, I mean, easy enough, because we have a clinic like I said. We have luckily have a clinic here, otherwise
P18: we would have been one of those cities where you have to travel. You know how many miles to get to a clinic.
Moderator: Okay, yeah, not ideal.
Moderator: You can continue.
P18: Okay.
Moderator: So I'm curious what the term primary caregiver means to you.
P18: Who's taking care of all the business in the household.
Moderator: Okay?
Moderator: So let's go through a scenario where you're adding yourself as the primary caregiver on this application, and just keep thinking aloud as you go.
P18: Okay.
P18: only be one
P18: at any one time.
P18: Should you like to apply for benefits? Yes.
P18: which
P18: I did all of this for myself.
P18: cause at that time.
P18: I think at the time I applied initially, when the Vso. Told me to apply, Thai was institutionalized. I believe so. I was doing everything already.
Moderator: Okay.
P18: But they wouldn't give me he was still deemed competent.
P18: even though he was institutionalized. So
P18: everything still had to like go through him. They wouldn't give me power of attorney.
Moderator: Okay.
P18: We had everything signed in case of anything like
P18: looked in his head.
P18: But
P18: like I could fill everything out, but everything still had to go through
P18: relationship
P18: oops.
Moderator: So you fill this out online by yourself.
Moderator: Yep.
Moderator: for this one, you can put a fake one, too. Let's just change one number from the other one, so we'll do 3, 2, 1.
P18: You didn't.
Moderator: 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 8.
Moderator: Let you go.
P18: Oh, yeah, alright
P18: interesting!
P18: Yes.
P18: is the primary family address, same as the home address? Yes.
P18: cool.
Moderator: Pam. What does the term secondary caregiver mean to you?
P18: I guess it would be the next in line. So if something happened to me, or if I weren't available to
P18: be here for him full time. Oops
P18: like I am. Oh, the wrong button.
P18: like I am! Who would be next in line to be there.
Moderator: Okay.
Moderator: how do you think that the secondary role differs in the application process and the benefits from the primary caregiver.
P18: I guess I don't know who qualifies so
P18: in my head because we have nobody. We we can't have kids, so it would be like asking a family member.
P18: But I don't know. Like the qualifications who qualifies.
P18: yeah. Backup support. Okay, can have one of the relationships.
P18: Oh, friend or other relative. Okay? Cause I was thinking, my mom so it would be mother-in-law.
P18: Okay, just wanna make sure it wasn't. It wouldn't be something like. She wouldn't even be able to
P18: be that person.
P18: I didn't. I know I didn't do this at that time, because I was very alone in my journey, and nobody knew
P18: what was going on. And A lot of
P18: my family
P18: left me.
P18: So I've now finally gained some relationships back. But so for me this was an automatic. No, I had nobody, nor would I let anybody take care of him, because everybody wanted me to leave him
P18: when everything happened.
Moderator: Alright
P18: But if I were to now have, like my mom is back in my life.
P18: I would hope that if you you know this was approved. She would get the benefits if I were not there. To be able to get them.
Moderator: Gotcha. Okay.
P18: Sounds like. That's what this says.
Moderator: Is that they would get the benefits if you were an.
P18: If I were not able to get them if something happened to me. But I was whatever in the hospital for a period of time I'm not able to take care of him.
P18: She would be the next runner up, and I mean I wouldn't be getting those benefits, so I would hope she would.
Moderator: Okay, thank you. That's helpful.
Moderator: Is that.
P18: I mean, I hope that's what this says. It's what it makes it sound like to me.
Moderator: Yeah, well, I'm just curious what you think, because we want to approve the form. So people understand?
Moderator: But you, let's just say no to this one and skip this step.
Moderator: Okay? So if you were completing this form for real could you tell me how you'd go about coordinating, getting the information from everyone involved.
Moderator: Were you able to just you had all of that information? I'm guessing.
P18: Everything. Yeah, okay.
P18: I knew
P18: I
P18: had to.
P18: Click.
P18: You guys are gonna like hearing this. But this is what I had to do, because this is what the Vso. Told me to do, because they wouldn't give me
P18: power of attorney.
P18: and I was institutionalized. So I had to. I clicked number one
P18: because I didn't have legal authority signing for him.
P18: and the Vso. Told me to get it
P18: on like on the
P18: books like, get it done as soon as I could, because
P18: the first, st whatever approval or denial, would come back within, I think it was 45, or 30 days.
P18: and the second one was 45 days, or 45 days and 90 days, or something like that. So
P18: That's what I had to do for my life at that time.
P18: but as far as documentation
P18: now.
P18: I mean I
P18: I do have
P18: now. I have
P18: the power of attorney, and I have everything here.
Moderator: Okay.
P18: I couldn't get. I I couldn't even get legal guardianship. It was absolute bullshit, like the
P18: sorry the the county was just like we're putting them away. But we're not giving you anything. It was just absolute. Nothing made sense in my life absolute. Nothing made sense in my life.
P18: In the Va. Couldn't help because they don't have any power over any of that
Moderator: And it's totally okay. We kind of assume a lot of people are selecting that they're the veteran, and they're just the caregiver filling it out for them. That's you know. I think that's.
P18: I'm sure, only I was just gonna say, I'm sure a lot of them do it, too.
Moderator: So if you were filling out now, is it accurate to say that you'd probably say I'm the representative, and you'd upload a power of attorney.
Moderator: Okay, gotcha
Moderator: you can select that.
Moderator: Just want to get your feedback on the next page.
P18: Hi.
P18: yeah.
P18: that seems pretty easy.
P18: power of attorney I'd have. I would just have to
P18: scan it into a Pdf,
P18: Luckily I know how to do. If people don't, I mean taking a picture of it.
P18: would be easy to.
Moderator: Okay.
P18: Enter the entire document, or we can't. Yeah.
P18: And then uploading it. Yeah.
Moderator: Okay?
Moderator: So if you uploaded that power attorney, what would you expect to happen next?
P18: Click the upload, file, upload it, I would assume it would say, either like check mark or
P18: files too full, or something to go back.
P18: and then
P18: I don't know if it says like a button to proceed, or if the continue button is just blue and able to continue.
P18: and then I would think that would be the end of it.
P18: minus, like your electronic signature. Maybe.
Moderator: Okay.
P18: Let'.
Moderator: Let's just go back and say that you're the veteran signing for yourself so that we can bypass putting a file.
Moderator: You can continue.
P18: Oh, there we go! Review everything that makes sense.
Moderator: And if you saw something that you entered by mistake, how would you go about correcting that.
P18: Just select that edit button.
P18: and I don't know if it would take you back to that very 1st initial screen, or if it would just let you edit it right here.
P18: To be able to change it.
Moderator: What would you? What would be your preference?
P18: I mean just selecting it here. I just didn't know if it would take you back to like the very 1st screen. Then.
P18: if you have to go through the whole thing again, can I select edit?
P18: Okay, update. So I wasn't sure if it was, gonna take us back to like the very 1st page, where, like, we initially started, and then make you go through the whole thing again. That's what I was wondering. But okay, that's easy, peasy. Just
P18: edit it
P18: updated.
P18: Make sure everything's good. Good, good.
P18: same thing. You can change it if need be.
P18: And then yeah, electronic signature.
Moderator: And what's your comfort? Level filling out and signing this information without your husband present.
P18: Right now. I guess anytime I'd be fine doing it because I do everything for him.
Moderator: Okay.
Moderator: so you're comfortable with that.
P18: Oh, yeah, I mean, he doesn't. Yeah, he doesn't know
P18: anything.
P18: Meds, money.
P18: really, where we are, what we do. He doesn't know anything so.
Moderator: Okay.
Moderator: Do you want me to.
P18: Continue that part.
Moderator: It is. Gonna ask you to do the fake name that you put in.
P18: I was trying to remember like, what did I do? ABC,
P18: ABC, ABC, okay.
P18: if you
P18: is there.
P18: I am 18.
P18: Make that one member of this family.
P18: Oh, makes sense. Did I use my name? I can't remember now.
P18: Yeah, okay.
P18: Alright.
Moderator: Okay.
P18: And this is easy. Just M. 18 and family member.
P18: I acknowledge payments contingent on eligibility.
P18: I agree to actually take care of them to get the money.
P18: not just leave them to die.
P18: I'm not getting employed by the Va.
P18: They can revoke it or discharge me at any time. All makes sense.
Moderator: Okay.
Moderator: so you can stop sharing, or I can just take it over.
P18: He's gonna take it over.
Moderator: Since this is a test site. It's not gonna let you actually submit the form. It will just give you an error. So I'm gonna put in. Oh, no, wait. I'm just gonna share the final screen
Moderator: movement
Moderator: to get your feedback on that.
Moderator: Alright. Do you see it? Okay, do you.
Moderator: At all.
P18: Yep.
Moderator: Okay.
Moderator: So just take a look over this page and let me know what your thoughts are. Impressions are, and what you think is they're saying is gonna happen next.
P18: We'll contact you to let you know what's next.
P18: what to expect. Okay.
P18: we'll receive an email
P18: confirmation email. Okay.
P18: yeah, I don't remember getting a confirmation email. But maybe that wasn't something years ago.
P18: Okay, everything I remember getting was all by mail.
P18: Oh.
P18: what to do if you have questions now.
P18: there wasn't a website, at least.
P18: Contact your caregiver support team at your oh, at your nearest Va. Health facility. Well, we did that, and they said to call the number. I remember, Ida. She was just like I get these calls all day long. She's like I can't do anything for you. Call the number.
P18: So call that number
P18: and
P18: the number. I think.
P18: if I remember right.
P18: you put in the sosh.
P18: and it would just tell you it was received, or it would tell you.
P18: Applications
P18: submitted at this between this time were received, but haven't been reviewed yet, or something like that. I don't know if that's still the process.
Moderator: Okay.
P18: But you couldn't actually like
P18: select a number to like, Hey, I wanna talk to somebody
P18: And then if you call the caregiver support number. They just say, to call that number
P18: So it was very
P18: very frustrating, because, like, what do I do if I have questions about my application.
P18: and if you're denied, you send the letter with your reason, you disagree, you appeal it, which you did
P18: learn more about the appeals, found that out.
P18: so then you're eligible for the program of General Caregiver support, which is like the monthly
P18: you know I have. You haven't gotten to them for a while now. But you can go to like the monthly
P18: telephone call in.
P18: I don't even know if they still do them, because it's been so long call and support
P18: support classes. I don't know what you want to call it.
Moderator: Okay.
P18: learn more
P18: the caregiver support line.
P18: which is that the same number? It is the same number. Okay, that's what I thought, yeah, it's the same number. So you don't need nobody knows anything.
P18: Oh, wow!
P18: Caregiver support team at your nearest. They just tell you to call the number.
P18: And that directory. Yeah, like our person. She just said to call the number so.
Moderator: Okay, that's really.
P18: Anything's changed one. As far as like the phone number goes, everything looks to be the same as when I went through all of this.
Moderator: Okay, thank you.
Moderator: Back. Is there any information that you would like to see here that you don't.
P18: Maybe some of the information to like the
P18: and maybe it is now on the
P18: learn more about the family, the decision reviews and appeals. Maybe it's on there now, but like the whole, the timeframe period thing.
P18: I just kept calling and calling, and finally, I don't remember who I spoke with, but it was I finally got a hold of somebody that was like the 1st one they have to give you back in 30 days.
P18: It was 30 days or 45 days, the second one they have to give you back within 45 to 90 days, or something like that.
P18: And then.
P18: after that, there's 0 timeframe. So just putting that on there.
P18: would be huge because I cannot tell you how many phone calls and emails and complaints and everything I made and like. I said, I've reached out to military family one source because I didn't know what else to do, and they couldn't get me anything
P18: and then we just
P18: it was last December. It was 2 years. That second appeal took 2 years. I got it back.
P18: and it was devastating when we got the denial, because we just
P18: all those points where it says these are the eligibility. It was like we meet, we meet, we meet, and
P18: they didn't agree with it. That was that was basically their
P18: Their decision was.
P18: they said he could go back to work
P18: and
P18: he, has not been able to do anything for himself.
Moderator: But he has a hundred percent service connection.
P18: A 100% mental.
P18: total, and permanently disabled.
P18: mentally disabled.
Moderator: Okay.
P18: But Yup, they said he can go back to work and he doesn't need, because it's 6 months consecutive care.
P18: And I've been doing it now since
P18: February, January of 2021,
P18: 2021, yeah, I thought it was 2020, 21. I've been doing it.
Moderator: Gotcha.
P18: And
P18: So that's why it was. We only have one shot left and
P18: There was no why, we had no new information. We've given everything we've given, and if they just decide that
P18: they don't agree with it. Well, then, what's to say? They're not gonna agree with our final.
P18: If we resend everything, even though everything, says the psychiatrist psychologist, the institutions say he's not going anywhere. He can't do anything
P18: if they don't agree with it. If that's gonna be their decision basis.
P18: Why would I?
P18: you know
P18: send in that last appeal and lose our shot? I guess.
Moderator: Yeah.
P18: So that's our. That's our devastating truth.
Moderator: Well, thank you so much for sharing your story. I know it's.
P18: Yeah.
Moderator: it is really insightful. And I'm gonna share your story with our the contacts that I have at the caregiver. Va, you know. Department but I won't, you know, share any personal information?
Moderator: Just to see if I could find out like why, you know, I I my understanding. Was it a hundred percent service connected?
Moderator: That would be issue? And so I I don't know. That's.
P18: And that's what we were told from the very beginning. It was going to be a shoe in because he was a hundred percent
P18: mental. It wasn't just like.
Moderator: Yeah.
P18: I mean, he has his physical stuff, too. But it wasn't just like because of physical stuff. It was. He's a hundred percent mentally
P18: deficient. So.
Moderator: Okay.
P18: Yeah, they all put you in, and then
P18: and then we have the denials.
Moderator: I'm so sorry.
Moderator: I just have, like a couple of final questions that we're done here.
Moderator: So what were your thoughts on the amount of information that was provided in the form. Did you think it was too much too little, or just enough.
P18: No, it seems fine.
P18: I feel like I remember putting more. But again, this was so long ago now, and my mental state has gone down that
P18: I feel like I remember having to put like his Dd. 2, 1, 4, and everything right away.
Moderator: Yeah.
P18: But maybe
P18: maybe it was the next step. And I'm just not remembering right. So
P18: I mean, that's
P18: all the
P18: I mean, if that's all they need off the you know, off the bat. That seems easy enough. Less is more for caregivers. I agree with that.
Moderator: Okay. Is there any additional information about who qualifies to be a primary or secondary caregiver that you would have liked to see in this form.
P18: No. Once I clicked on because I didn't know what the like. The secondary, when I questioned like my mom, I was like. But then it said, Friend, neighbor, other relative like, that's pretty much anybody.
P18: Yeah. So
P18: oh, I think that's self explanatory.
Moderator: All right.
Moderator: that's all the questions that I have for you. I just want to circle back and reconfirm. Are you comfortable? If we were to share a video clip of the session with our Va partners removing any identifying information.
P18: Yeah, that's fine.
Moderator: Is there any part of our discussion that you wouldn't want shared in a video clip.
P18: No!
P18: Shared my story. Enough.
Moderator: Hey, Melanie? Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your feedback. Improve this process for veterans and caregivers.
Moderator: Lastly, Perigan. That's the company that sent you the invite for this session. They'll be sending you a thank you. Note in your email with a blurb that you could pass along to other veterans and caregivers. If you know anyone who might want to participate in research studies like this.
Moderator: Okay.
P18: Good. You guys have a good day.
Moderator: You, too. Thank you so much.
P18: Thanks so much. Bye, guys.